It was long past noon when he awoke. His valet
had crept several times on tiptoe into the room
to see if he was stirring, and had wondered what
made his young master sleep so late. Finally
his bell sounded, and Victor came in softly with
a cup of tea, and a pile of letters, on a small
tray of old Sevres china, and drew back the olive-satin
curtains, with their shimmering blue lining,
that hung in front of the three tall windows.
“Monsieur has well slept this morning,” he said,
smiling. “What o’clock is it, Victor?” asked
Dorian Gray drowsily. “One hour and a quarter,
Monsieur.” How late it was! He sat up, and having
sipped some tea, turned over his letters. One
of them was from Lord Henry, and had been brought
by hand that morning. He hesitated for a moment,
and then put it aside. The others he opened listlessly.
They contained the usual collection of cards,
invitations to dinner, tickets for private views,
programmes of charity concerts, and the like
that are showered on fashionable young men every
morning during the season. There was a rather
heavy bill for a chased silver Louis-Quinze toilet-set
that he had not yet had the courage to send on
to his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned
people and did not realize that we live in an
age when unnecessary things are our only necessities;
and there were several very courteously worded
communications from Jermyn Street money-lenders
offering to advance any sum of money at a moment’s
notice and at the most reasonable rates of interest.
After about ten minutes he got up, and throwing
on an elaborate dressing-gown of silk-embroidered
cashmere wool, passed into the onyx-paved bathroom.
The cool water refreshed him after his long sleep.
He seemed to have forgotten all that he had gone
through. A dim sense of having taken part in
some strange tragedy came to him once or twice,
but there was the unreality of a dream about
it. As soon as he was dressed, he went into the
library and sat down to a light French breakfast
that had been laid out for him on a small round
table close to the open window. It was an exquisite
day. The warm air seemed laden with spices. A
bee flew in and buzzed round the blue-dragon
bowl that, filled with sulphur-yellow roses,
stood before him. He felt perfectly happy. Suddenly
his eye fell on the screen that he had placed
in front of the portrait, and he started. “Too
cold for Monsieur?” asked his valet, putting
an omelette on the table. “I shut the window?”
Dorian shook his head. “I am not cold,” he murmured.
Was it all true? Had the portrait really changed?
Or had it been simply his own imagination that
had made him see a look of evil where there had
been a look of joy? Surely a painted canvas could
not alter? The thing was absurd. It would serve
as a tale to tell Basil some day. It would make
him smile. And, yet, how vivid was his recollection
of the whole thing! First in the dim twilight,
and then in the bright dawn, he had seen the
touch of cruelty round the warped lips. He almost
dreaded his valet leaving the room. He knew that
when he was alone he would have to examine the
portrait. He was afraid of certainty. When the
coffee and cigarettes had been brought and the
man turned to go, he felt a wild desire to tell
him to remain. As the door was closing behind
him, he called him back. The man stood waiting
for his orders. Dorian looked at him for a moment.
“I am not at home to any one, Victor,” he said
with a sigh. The man bowed and retired. Then
he rose from the table, lit a cigarette, and
flung himself down on a luxuriously cushioned
couch that stood facing the screen. The screen
was an old one, of gilt Spanish leather, stamped
and wrought with a rather florid Louis-Quatorze
pattern. He scanned it curiously, wondering if
ever before it had concealed the secret of a
man’s life. Should he move it aside, after all?
Why not let it stay there? What was the use of
knowing? If the thing was true, it was terrible.
If it was not true, why trouble about it? But
what if, by some fate or deadlier chance, eyes
other than his spied behind and saw the horrible
change? What should he do if Basil Hallward came
and asked to look at his own picture? Basil would
be sure to do that. No; the thing had to be examined,
and at once. Anything would be better than this
dreadful state of doubt. He got up and locked
both doors. At least he would be alone when he
looked upon the mask of his shame. Then he drew
the screen aside and saw himself face to face.
It was perfectly true. The portrait had altered.
As he often remembered afterwards, and always
with no small wonder, he found himself at first
gazing at the portrait with a feeling of almost
scientific interest. That such a change should
have taken place was incredible to him. And yet
it was a fact. Was there some subtle affinity
between the chemical atoms that shaped themselves
into form and colour on the canvas and the soul
that was within him? Could it be that what that
soul thought, they realized?—that what it dreamed,
they made true? Or was there some other, more
terrible reason? He shuddered, and felt afraid,
and, going back to the couch, lay there, gazing
at the picture in sickened horror. One thing,
however, he felt that it had done for him. It
had made him conscious how unjust, how cruel,
he had been to Sibyl Vane. It was not too late
to make reparation for that. She could still
be his wife. His unreal and selfish love would
yield to some higher influence, would be transformed
into some nobler passion, and the portrait that
Basil Hallward had painted of him would be a
guide to him through life, would be to him what
holiness is to some, and conscience to others,
and the fear of God to us all. There were opiates
for remorse, drugs that could lull the moral
sense to sleep. But here was a visible symbol
of the degradation of sin. Here was an ever-present
sign of the ruin men brought upon their souls.

